The module pattern leverages a lot of the powerful features of JavaScript like scope,
closures, and IIFEs or immediately invoked function expressions.
So, let's go ahead and check out how it looks like.
First, I know I'm going to need an IIFE.
What you also need to do is return an object from this IIFE.
So, let's go ahead and write that first and fill in the rest later,
and on top of that, what we need to do is create a local variable inside this IIFE.
Again, from what we know about scope closures and IIFEs,
we know that this variable is going to be private.
Let's call this one name and give it a string value.
Now, let's go ahead and add a few methods to this return object that we can
use to both access and modify this name variable over here.
First, I'll supply the simple method to get the name.
We'll just call it getName.
Let's also write a set name method.
This method can have a single parameter,
which we can use to change the value of the name variable over here.
Lastly, what we want to do is assign the return value of this entire IIFE to a variable,
let's call this one person.
Just double-check, let's go ahead and see if we can access this name
variable over here undefined, which again,
it makes sense because name isn't a defined property in this person object,
but on the other hand,
we can still access this string value over here by using the getName method.
The string Veronica is still accessible via this getName method.
Likewise, what we can also do is set the name which just
reassigns the value of name to whatever name that we pass in.
So, if we now try and get name,
we can see that the string value of name which was originally
Veronica has actually changed to Jessica,
which is what we passed in over here.
So, a couple of take-home messages with this one is that
these methods getName and setName retain their parent's scope,
which means they can reference their parent function's local variables.
Again, you can see name over here, name over here,
which refers to the local variable name inside this parent.
So, one of the main benefits of this is that by
defining a class or function inside a function,
we actually introduce a new scope and keep things out of the global scope,
but of course, means to execute the function which we did over here.
So, what's great about the module pattern is that it uses closures to create
private and public properties of an object
which actually isn't provided by JavaScript by default.